On the basis of the request from the SAO, the BRH found that the audit performed by the German tax office at the acquirer in Germany had not yet been completed.
The German acquirer declared the acquisition of goods at a value of EUR 16,335 twice, in the tax returns for the months of August and September 2004.
10.
In 2005, through a SCAC form, the Czech tax administrator requested review of supplies of automobiles to a German taxpayer at a value of EUR 198,167, performed in the 4th quarter of 2004 and 1st quarter of 2005, showing the characteristics of carousel fraud.
The German tax administration sent a partial answer to the RFI to the CR, in which it confirmed that the German taxpayer acquired several automobiles and further stated that the investigation in Germany had not yet been completed.
The SAO found that the competent local tax office performed several local investigations at the Czech supplier for the purpose of reviewing the claim of excessive VAT deductions, in which it did not find unauthorised claiming.
The BRH found that in this period the German taxpayer declared in his VAT returns the acquisition of goods from other Member States with a total value of EUR 579,114 and that the audit performed by the German tax office at the acquirer in Germany has still not yet been completed.
In chapter 4.4.1 the reasons of mismatches between the declaration of intra-Community acquisitions in the recipient’s VAT return and the data of the RS of the supplier are described.
The audited cases showed that temporary mismatches or the improper declaration of a transaction as an intra-Community supply of goods in RS were not the most frequent causes for the deviations:
11.
According to data from the VIES system, in the 1st quarter of 2005, the Czech taxpayer allegedly acquired goods at a value of EUR 35,716 from the German taxpayer; however, the Czech taxpayer did not declare this acquisition.
Since the Czech taxpayer failed to cooperate with the tax administrator and no activities were performed in the registered seat of the company, the Czech tax administrator requested, as part of international exchange of information, review of the way in which the German taxpayer communicated with the Czech taxpayer.
