Procurement of public building and corruption prevention
Joint report on parallel audit submitted by the Czech Supreme Audit Ofice (NKÚ) and the German Bundesrechnungshof (BRH)
Introduction and overview
The procurement of goods and services by public-sector contracting agencies is of great importance both for the government and for the business community.
The government’s task is to use public resources as efficiently and economically as possible and to ensure fair and regulated competition.
In the European Union (EU), public contract awarding is key to the success of the single economic area.
In order to ensure a largely unrestricted competition in the field of crossborder procurement, awarding authorities also have to meet certain requirements imposed by the EU in awarding contracts where the contract value exceeds certain thresholds.
To this end, the EU Member States have to transpose EU procurement law into their national law and apply it.
This has already happened both in the Czech Republic and in Germany.
For contracts worth less than the EU thresholds, regulating public contract awarding procedures remains a matter for the individual countries.
Moreover, the contract award procedure is, as a rule, vulnerable to corruption.
In view of the generally high damage potential, awarding authorities are obliged to take reasonable action to fight and to rule out corruption and abusive favouritism in their contract award procedures (corruption prevention).
In January 2011, the Supreme Audit Office of the Czech Republic (Czech SAI – NKÚ) and the Bundesrechnungshof of Germany (German SAI – BRH) agreed to conduct parallel audits both of the EU-wide awarding of building contracts and of corruption prevention.
The audit focused on the application of EU procurement law as transposed into national law and corruption prevention of contracts for building construction and road construction and/or transport infrastructure.
The audit also covered contract awards below the EU thresholds with a view to corruption prevention.
The two SAIs’ audit findings are summarised in the joint report, which is also to be addressed to international institutions such as the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI).
Fields of audit and audited bodies
The assessments performed by the German SAI are for the most part based on horizontal audits of the above-mentioned topics, which we carried out at German building authorities responsible for federal road and building construction in the years 2011–2012.
