Selection of candidates in case of restricted tendering procedures
In contrast to public tendering procedures, restricted tendering procedures do not permit all potential contractors who are interested in winning the contract to participate in the competition.
Under restricted procedures, the contracting authority must previously select potential contractors that will be asked to submit a tender.
Requirements of EU law and of corruption prevention
The EU provisions permit a limitation of the number of candidates in EU-wide restricted tendering procedures.
However, restricted procedure requires at least five candidates to be asked to submit tenders and in the case of negotiated procedures with previous publication of a contract notice at least three potential contractors must be invited.
In any case, the number of invited candidates must be sufficiently large to guarantee genuine competition.
The selection criteria must be objective and nondiscriminatory and must be published in advance.
The selection of potential contractors to be invited is a stage within the tendering procedure which is highly vulnerable to manipulation, e.g. undue preference being given to certain contractors.
Moreover, the restriction of competition to few contractors may facilitate collusive tendering.
In both case, such practices may considerably deteriorate the result of thetendering procedure to the disadvantage of the contracting authority.
Therefore, the latter, must make special arrangements to prevent manipulations, to ensure that adequate controls are in place and that this stage in the procedure is transparent and plausible.
Provisions of German and Czech procurement law
Identical or similar provisions
The provisions on the selection of candidates are similar in the two countries.
In addition to EU requirements, the contracting authorities are to alternate among the contractors to be invited.
It is also not permitted to restrict competition to contractors domiciled in particular regions.
The contracting authorities have to document and justify the selection of bidders and the course of the selection procedure in the contract award memos.
Differing provisions
In Germany, it is required to invite at least three candidates in the case of restricted tendering and several suitable candidates in the case of awards by negotiated contract.
Except in two specific cases, the new Czech regulations do not allow limiting the number of invited tenderers in case of restricted and negotiated procedure.
In Germany, it is required to observe the crosscheck principle when selecting the candidates.
