Moreover the two SAIs are of the opinion that reliable statistics should disclose the annual number of requests as well as the nature of claims concerned (VAT, income tax etc.) and amounts of the claims recovered per Member State.
The two SAIs consider it useful that the Commission provides for a more detailed analysis of the statistics submitted by the Member States, because this may help the Member States to assess their own effectiveness in combating VAT fraud.
As the recovery rate can be calculated per Member State, the two SAIs consider it helpful that Member States with a low rate should increase their efforts to reach at least the average recovery rate of the EU.
If a Member State so desires, the Commission should take an active part in this process.
Concerning the requests for recovery received, the Czech Ministry of Finance submitted the requests to the competent tax administrators with delay in particular during 2006 and 2007.
A similar situation was identified with respect to the requests for international assistance for the recovery of the claims received from the tax administrators in the Czech Republic.
The audit revealed that the Czech Ministry of Finance did not proceed in accordance with the Act No. 191/2004 Coll. for the international assistance for the recovery of claims, because it failed to notify a competent authority of the Member State of the progress of the recovery efforts within the six months time period from the day of acknowledgement of receiving the request.
4.5 VAT audit of large tax entities
4.5.1 VAT audit of large tax entities in the Czech Republic
Všeobecné informace
Správa DPH u VDS byla zajišťována obdobně jako u ostatních daňových subjektů.
The procedure for the large tax entity audit is based on Act No. 337/1992 Coll., on administration of taxes and fees.
The Czech Ministry of Finance defined large tax entities as natural or legal persons founded or established for the purpose of doing business and whose net turnover for the taxation period declared in their individual or corporate income tax return amounted to CZK 2 bn and more.
Classification of a tax entity as large tax entity was carried out following its income tax return submission for the respective taxation period, and for 2003 for the first time.
