Pursuant to the Provisions of ยง 37 (1) of Act No. 337/1992 Coll., the tax office may repeatedly impose a fine of up to CZK 2,000,000 (EUR 67,150) on a person who does not meet his obligations of a non-monetary nature following from this or a special tax law or imposed in a decision pursuant to this law.
Automated tax information system, which the tax office uses for technical support for administration of taxes.
The SAO found that the tax offices mostly did not make use of the possibility of imposing a fine on taxpayers for failure to submit a VAT return.
Submitting and processing of VAT returns in Germany
In Germany we differentiate between preliminary monthly or quarterly VAT returns and the annual VAT return.
Those taxpayers who are obliged to submit preliminary VAT returns nevertheless have to submit an annual VAT return.
Even small entrepreneurs who are not obliged to pay VAT have to submit an annual VAT return.
Taxpayers generally have to submit quarterly VAT returns by the 10th day of the month following the quarter in which VAT arises (ยง 18 (2) UStG).
However, if the VAT liability exceeded EUR 6,136 in the previous calendar year or in case of a newly established business the entrepreneur is obliged to submit monthly VAT returns by the 10th day following the respective month.
The taxpayer may also choose to submit monthly VAT returns if there was a refund in the preceding year, which exceeded EUR 6,136 (ยง 18 (2a) UStG).
VAT returns need not be submitted if the annual VAT did not exceed EUR 512.
The corresponding VAT liability has to be paid by the 10th day of the month following the tax period in which the VAT arose.
A refund may lead to a more detailed investigation by the tax authorities.
Deadlines (by law) for the processing of VAT returns and for the refund of excessive VAT do not exist.
To achieve the refund in time, it is possible to offer a security for the repayable amount.
It is a basic principle to process VAT returns and refunds promptly.
Under German VAT law this time limit may be extended (ยง 18 (6) UStG).
Such extension has to be applied for separately.
