The reason was increasing of scope of delivery and changes of technical conditions.
In case of some social buildings construction the tender documentation showed mistakes which resulted in necessity of extra works (precise location missing, technical and constructional research insufficient, drawings missing).
Tender documentation for construction of a big library described the elements of interior only without specifying product quality requirements.
As a result, some sub suppliers provided some very expensive and above standard equipment.
Lots and criteria according to which the contract is to be awarded
In the Czech Republic, no obligation of dividing public works projects into partial lots or awarding partial contracts is in place.
Analysis of three big parts of a road circle construction proved that within their public procurement in parts (individually by selected installations), savings amounting up to 31.6 million EUR could have been achieved, out of total of achieved public contract prices amounting to 620.3 million EUR.
For example, in case of offer price for 6 individual construction objects as 6 separate parts of one public contract, the savings of 2.5 million EUR (i.e. 25%) could have been achieved.
If the construction works of 20 bridges had been awarded as a separate part of one public contract, the savings amounting to 11.5 million EUR (i.e. 25%) could have been achieved.
In case of road constructions, contracting authority imposed very extensive requirements for references as suitability criteria.
In tender documentation of open procedure for one part of a motorway construction, contracting authority requested, among others, such experience of a supplier, proving his realization of at least three road construction projects worth 28 million EUR each, finalized or put into operation within the last 5 years.
In the Czech Republic, there are not more than 9 suppliers complying with the above prerequisite.
Open public procurement for another part of a motorway construction included 6 separate construction works, where the contracting authority demanded minimum yearly construction volume of construction works worth € 480 million within the last 3 years.
Podle provedeného rozboru získalo dvě třetiny finančního objemu zakázek v oblasti pozemních komunikací (62,5 mld. Kč z 92,5 mld. Kč) v letech 2008 až 2009 pět firem buď samostatně, nebo v rámci sdružení.
In case of together 46 contract award procedures worth € 528 million, there were just two or even one only tenderer.
