Bruchsal, Ettlingen, Freudenstadt, Karlsruhe-Stadt, Leonberg, Mühlacker, Singen, Tuttlingen, Cham, Fürstenfeldbruck, München-Körperschaften, München II, IV und München V, Starnberg, Hamburg-Altona, Hamburg-Hansa, Hamburg-Mitte, Hamburg-Nord und Hamburg für Großunternehmen, Hannover-Nord, Winsen-Luhe, Bonn-Innenstadt, Köln-Mitte, Köln-Porz, Köln-Süd, Sankt Augustin, Pirmasens, Bautzen, Chemnitz-Süd, Dresden II, Freiberg, Leipzig I und Zschopau.
Additionally, discussions were held with the tax offices Augsburg-Stadt, Aurich, Düsseldorf-Altstadt, Eisleben, Kelheim und Verden.
The audit findings were reported to the MoF in May 2007.
Cooperation of the two audit institutions
As part of preparing parallel audits, several meetings of representatives of the two audit institutions were held in the period prior to their commencement.
Participants in these meetings became acquainted with the organisation of the tax administrations, legislation on VAT and the VAT administration system in the two countries.
The subject matter of the testing phase was agreed at the meeting that was held in May 2006.
The results of the testing phase were evaluated at the next joint meeting in August 2006.
At this meeting, also a timetable was agreed for further procedure, and the following subjects for parallel audits were selected:
1. Registration of VAT payers.
2.
International passenger bus transportation – legislation in the CR and Germany.
3. International exchange of information, in particular the processing of requests for information and furthermore how the tax offices reviewed selected problem cases mentioned in the requests for information, and in the spontaneous information supplied between the CR and Germany.
4. VAT returns.
5.
Recapitulative statements.
6.
Statistical information on supply and acquisition of goods between the CR and the Germany.
7. VAT risk management.
At a meeting of the SAO and the BRH, held in December 2006, the two parties became acquainted with the audit procedure in the CR and Germany and discussed results achieved in the parallel audits.
A report on the results of the parallel audits of the administration of VAT between the CR and Germany was elaborated at the working meeting in July 2007.
4. Administration of value added tax in the CR and Germany
Registrace plátců k DPH
A) Taxpayers with their offi cial seat, place of business or commercial premises in the CR
Pursuant to Act No. 337/1992 Coll., on administration of taxes and fees (hereinafter “Act No. 337/1992 Coll.”) the term tax entity refers to a taxpayer, a taxable person and the legal successor of a natural or legal person that is a tax entity definedby law. 
