To review a non-resident taxpayer’s VAT return or the fulfilment of his obligations, the BRH considered all these means of administrative cooperation as too labour-intensive compared to the small amounts of VAT that have to be paid for taxable supplies of transport of passengers.
Especially an audit of a non-resident taxpayer’s accounting leads to disproportional costs for both taxpayers and tax administration.
The latter has to audit the foreign accounting that does not only mean to understand the foreign language but to also know the foreign accounting standards.
So this audit is likely to take more time than an audit of a resident taxpayer, yet the audit is restricted to those passenger transports, that take place in Germany.
On the other hand, the non-resident taxpayer has not only to accept the audit rights of his national tax administration but also audits of other Member States wherever he transports passengers.
Moreover, for each Member State in that only one supply of transport of passengers takes place, taxpayers have to fulfil any duties of taxation in all of these Member States, respectively in all different languages and using all tax forms of these EC Member States.
So the actual taxation of crossborder transport of passengers causes unreasonable bureaucratic costs.
Comparison and evaluation
The legal situation in both countries is different.
In the CR, the transport of passengers between the individual Member States of the EC and also between the Member States and third countries is exempt from VAT with the right for tax deduction, on the basis of the Act on Accession of the CR.
In Germany, the part of the transport, that takes place within the German territory, is a taxable transaction.
If a non-resident taxpayer provides such transport for the first time, he is obliged to announce it to a competent tax office in advance.
The tax office registers taxpayers and taxpayers have to declare the taxable portion of transport in a tax return in Germany.
Applying the law in Germany is very time-consuming.
At least three of four Czech taxpayers registered in the tax office Chemnitz-Süd do their business in the transport of passengers.
Compared to the efforts required tax revenue is rather low.
