Furthermore, Germany has committed itself to providing other EC Member States with the following information through a structured automatic exchange:
a. The supply of new means of transport to entrepreneurs without using their VAT ID, b. supplies by distance or catalogue selling to other Member States which are not taxable in Germany, c. significant differences between the intra-Community acquisitions declared by a taxpayer and the VIES data submitted by other Member States, d. intra-Community supplies of goods which the German taxpayer did not report in RS, because the supplies were treated as domestic transactions, e. potential “missing trader” which made intra-Community transactions independent of the validity of their VAT ID and f. entrepreneurs who supplied goods to potential “missing traders” or recipients who misused their VAT ID.
Comparison and evaluation
Sending of RFI or spontaneous information is initiated both in the CR and Germany by competent local tax offices that send filed SCAC forms to the CLO.
While the Czech CLO uses bilingual SCAC forms (CzechEnglish) and translates dispatched information into English or German language, respectively, German tax offices comply with the instruction, according to which they have to write RFI or spontaneous information exclusively in German on a single-language form.
The German CLO does not provide a translation of German texts.
When reviewing RFIs transmitted between the CR and Germany in the period from 1 May 2004 to 31 December 2005, the SAO found that the Czech tax administration settled 74,5 % of received RFIs in a given three months deadline, while RFIs sent to Germany were settled by the German tax administration in the given deadline in 40,6 % cases only.
Although the German CLO refers the tax offices to the 3-month-deadline it does not monitor the elapsed time limits.
The outcome of the missing reminders is the high quantity of delayed answers to RFIs.
Because of these problems the BRH recommended a steady reminding exercise of the CLO.
The situation has already improved.
According to our latest information the German CLO now reminds the Tos tax offices of answering the incompleted requests for information.
VAT risk management
Risk management in the CR
In the CR, several units at various organisational levels of the tax administration are concerned with VAT risk management.
