The audit period covered the years 2006 through 2008 including relevant information dating from the time preceding the audit up to the time of audit conclusion.
2. Summary of findings and evaluation of parallel audits
The follow-up audit of the administration of VAT in the Czech Republic and in Germany was carried out on the basis of an agreement between the two SAIs.
During previous parallel audits, suspicious cases of intra-Community transactions were detected.
Some of them merited further review.
On the basis of audit findings the two SAIs produced recommendations on VAT management.
The follow-up audit was conducted to evaluate the action taken in response to these recommendations and to review the suspicious cases selected.
The audit also covered other topics such as the selected cases of high risk intra-Community transactions, mutual assistance for the recovery of claims and the VAT audit of large tax entities.
When auditing VAT administration in selected areas in the two countries, auditors developed the following audit findings:
1. Recommendations from the previous audit
• Recommendation 1: Conditions for registration of taxpayers should be harmonised within the EU
By comparing the systems of registration for VAT in the two countries auditors found discrepancies in the previous parallel audits.
Since the different ways of registration caused problems, the SAIs recommended harmonising the conditions for registration of taxpayers within the EU.
This issue was taken up at EU level.
The draft of the amended Council (EC) Regulation No. 1798/2003 on administrative cooperation in the field of value added tax and repealing Regulation (EEC) No. 218/92 (hereinafter the “Council (EC) Regulation No. 1798/2003”) had proposed to expand the current databases within EU, including a database of the tax identification numbers of the VAT payers.
It also provided for common standards for registration and deregistration of taxpayers.
The SAIs expected Member States to agree on adequate standards supporting their decision to keep unreliable traders as early as possible out of the VAT system.
However, the latest version of this document being subject of political agreement among Member States within ECOFIN does no longer cover those issues mentioned before.
The two SAIs regret, that the idea of common minimum standards has been abandoned.
They still consider this idea relevant to combat VAT fraud preventively.
• Recommendation 2: Monthly submission of recapitulative statements
