An invoice containing the motor fuel distributor’s or registered person’s number allocated to it by the excise duty administrator is also sufficient proof of the method of acquisition of motor fuels.
During their supervision over mineral oils, excise duty administrators in the Slovak Republic registers duty evasion related to the movement of these commodities.
Small independent brewery
A small independent brewery operator is a person who brews beer as a business and fulfils certain statutory conditions.
Assuming the fulfilment of certain statutory conditions, a small independent brewery can apply a reduced duty rate of €2.652 per hl/percent of actual ethyl alcohol by volume.
Annual beer production is limited to 200,000 hl of beer.
As beer production is outside the duty suspension regime, an accompanying document is not required during movement because the beer is in free circulation.
A small independent brewery cannot be a tax warehouse.
In practice, such breweries are small family enterprises that also operate a restaurant or pub where they offer beer that they have brewed themselves.
Administrative tasks in Slovakia
Excise duty supervision over certain tax entities is divided up under Slovak law as follows.
The greatest increase in administrative tasks, i.e., by 5.3%, was registered in 2012 and 2013. This was caused by the greater number of movements executed in EMCS.
Conversely, the greatest year-on-year drop was registered in 2013 and 2014, specifically by 4.3%, which was caused by a smaller number of completed tax audits as well as a smaller number of submitted tax declarations.
The drop was due in part to changes in legislation.
Tax audits
Tax audits performed by the customs office aim to discover or examine facts required for the proper assessment of duties.
When performing tax audits, customs office employees present a tax audit authorisation to identify themselves. This authorisation contains information about the purpose and subject of the audit and periods covered by the audit.
In practice, this means that the audited period can be as short as one month or even as long as a number of taxation periods.
The scope of the audited periods is determined by the customs office.
A tax audit begins with a tax audit commencement report being drawn up.
Documents received or taken by the customs office are confirmed by a receipt.
