— As to SAD items, in respect whereof differences between the Czech Customs Database and the databases of Tax Offices were found to exist, printouts of appropriate SADs, including invoices attached thereto, were requested from General Directorate of Customs of the Czech Republic.
The audit established, inter alia, that the SAD databases of Tax Offices did not contain, for example, records on import- and export-related related SADs corresponding to aggregate VAT values of CZK 3,622,000.- and CZK 9,359,000.-, respectively.
5.2.1.1. Differences Established by the Audit
A comparison of SAD databases at Tax Offices and cumulative tax liabilities in 2002 and 2003 according to VAT Return Forms of a selected sample of taxpaying entities identified the following differences:
The differences are attributable especially to:
- The time difference between the physical completion of the import transaction and the date of the refund claim with respect to the VAT assessed on the imported goods.
The taxpaying entity could lodge the VAT refund claim with respect to imported goods within 3 years from the end of the fiscal period in which the goods had been placed under the appropriate procedure; insofar as the temporary use procedure is concerned, within 3 years from the end of the fiscal period in which the procedure was terminated or ended.
- The time difference between the physical completion of the export transaction and the date on which the taxpaying entity received the relevant SAD.
The taxpaying entity was obliged to present data on accomplished export transactions exempted from VAT upon leaving the country in the VAT Return Form, at the earliest in the fiscal period in which the goods in question had left the country and subject to the taxpaying entity having received a tax document, i.e. the SAD.
- Non-compliance of taxpaying entities with their duties and obligations concerning reporting of import and export transactions in their VAT Return Forms.
In some cases, taxpaying entities had failed to report correct data on import and export transactions in their VAT Return Forms.
As taxpaying entities did not have to attach SAD lists to their VAT Return Forms, the possibility of checking and verifying VAT refund or VAT exemption claims by Tax Offices was rendered more difficult.
5.2.2. Cooperation of Tax and Customs Authorities
