Comprehensiveness of specifications
In most of the cases reviewed, the tender documents had been fully elaborated before the process of soliciting bids was launched.
However in various cases, documents had to be modified during the tendering process to pay due regard to changing items or time schedules.
In isolated cases, tender documents contained work or supplies whose necessity was uncertain.
One tender document on demolition work we looked at consisted almost exclusively of such items.
Lots and criteria according to which the contract is to be awarded
In a large number of cases, the required justification for not subdividing the lots of services into partial lots was not given.
The criteria we studied according to which the contract is to be awarded gave us no reason to point out shortcomings.
Inclusion of names of self-employed professionals
In a number of documents the commissioned independent professionals involved were mentioned.
The names were identified on the cover sheets or on the plans or opinions attached.
In one case, the contracting authority even called upon bidders to contact the architect explicitly mentioned regarding questions on the tender.
In building construction projects such cases were caused in the first place by the self-employed persons commissioned to develop the specification documents.
The building administration services stated that they did not have enough staff to control the tender documents in detail.
NKÚ
Technical specifications and product-neutral invitation to tender
In case of public procurement for 12 apartments building, there was reference to concrete supplier and type of product mentioned in the specification.
Contracting authority did not admit using of other comparable types of products. and did not give reason for insisting on these concrete suppliers and products.
In connections with the constructing of various university facilities, the tender documents specified concrete suppliers and products.
Overall list of specifications with partial specifications
In case of constructions of some industrial zones contracting authority did not clearly specify the volume and type of requested works and supplies in the list of measurement, and as measuring unit he specified for each building only the built up volume in cubic meters.
Comprehensiveness of specifications
During the procurement of public contract for construction of a road circle, the tender documentation for restricted procedure was four times changed in the period of August– September 2009.
