54 such cases were found at the audited tax offices.
E.g., during examination of a review instruction, it was ascertained that a difference of CZK 10 974 thousand was caused by the fact that the Slovak taxpayer included in the RS for the 1st quarter of 2005 the provision of services (construction work and supply of goods including assembly in the territory of the CR).
Another reason for the existence of differences consisted in inclusion of values of accepted advance payments in the RS; e.g., 2 Slovak taxpayers included in their RS advance payments accepted from Czech taxpayers, resulting in generating a review instruction concerning a difference of CZK 3 580 thousand.
Review instructions concerning acquired goods are generated only once per quarter.
In case of a subsequent change in the data declared in the RS in the EU member countries, such as a change in the buyer of goods in the CR or an increase in the value of goods supplied to the CR, no new review instructions are generated.
Given the fact that the VIES system does not provide automatic notification of these changes, without further information the locally competent tax administrator for the acquirer of the goods may not learn of the facts decisive for correct assessment of the tax obligation concerning the acquired goods and the probability of VAT fraud is very high.
The audit performed by the SAO, CR indicated that this situation occurred, e.g. in the following cases:
A Slovak taxpayer stated in the RS for the 2nd quarter of 2004 the value of goods supplied to a Czech taxpayer equal to SKK 1 504 thousand.
On February 1, 2005, the locally competent tax office for the Czech taxpayer sent a request for information to the SR, as the Czech taxpayer accounted for acquisition of goods only in the amount of CZK 425 thousand.
On the basis of tax proceedings, on March 1, 2005, the Slovak taxpayer submitted a supplementary RS, in which he corrected data on supply of goods to the CR, namely by decreasing the value of the supply to the original Czech taxpayer to SKK 538 thousand and increasing the value of goods supplied to another Czech taxpayer from SKK 194 thousand to the value of SKK 1 160 thousand.
