Bruchsal, Ettlingen, Freudenstadt, Karlsruhe-Stadt, Leonberg, Mühlacker, Singen, Tuttlingen, Cham, Fürstenfeldbruck, Munich Corporations, Munich II, IV and Munich V, Starnberg, Hamburg-Altona, Hamburg-Hansa, Hamburg-Mitte, Hamburg-North and Hamburg for large companies, Hannover-North, Winsen-Luhe, Bonn-Innenstadt, Cologne-Mitte, Cologne-Porz, Cologne-Süd, Sankt Augustin, Pirmasens, Bautzen, Chemnitz-Süd, Dresden II, Freiberg, Leipzig and Zopschau.
Talks were also held with the FÄ Augsburg-Stadt, Aurich, Düsseldorf-Altstadt, Eisleben, Kelheim and Verden.
The results were communicated to the BMF in May 2007.
Cooperation between the two Court of Auditors
In the run-up to the parallel audit, several meetings of representatives of both Court of Auditors took place.
The participants in these meetings familiarized themselves with the organization of the tax administration, the legislation on the sales tax and the system of the sales tax administration in the other country.
The subject of the test phase was agreed at the meeting in May 2006.
The results of the test phase were evaluated at the next joint meeting in August 2006.
At this meeting, a timetable for the further procedure was drawn up and the following examination topics were identified for the parallel tests: 1.
Registration of tax fugitives.
2.
Cross-border passenger transport by bus and coach - legislation in the Czech Republic and Germany.
3. International exchange of information, in particular the approach of financial officials to the processing of requests for information and the verification of selected problem cases mentioned in the requests for information, as well as spontaneous exchanges between the Czech Republic and Germany.
4. Tax returns.
5.
Summarized messages.
6.
Statistical information on deliveries and purchases between the Czech Republic and Germany.
7. Risk management in the sales tax area.
At a meeting in December 2006 to coordinate the further examination of the NKÚ and the BRH, both sides familiarized themselves with the examination procedure in the Czech Republic and Germany and discussed the results of the parallel tests already achieved.
THISsegmentISintentionallyLEFTblank
4. Management of VAT in the Czech Republic and Germany
THISsegmentISintentionallyLEFTblank
THISsegmentISintentionallyLEFTblank
THISsegmentISintentionallyLEFTblank
