In accordance with the provisions of Section 37 (1) of Law No. 337/1992, the FA may repeatedly impose a fine of up to CZK 2 million on persons who fail to comply with their non-monetary obligations under this or a special tax law or decision under this Act ,
Automated tax information system - Automated tax information system used by the Czech tax authorities to provide technical support to tax collection.
During its audit, the NKÚ found that the FAO seldom made use of the possibility of imposing a fine on the relevant taxpayer in the event of non-submission of the VAT return.
Submission and processing of VAT returns in Germany
In Germany, a distinction is made between monthly or quarterly VAT returns and the annual VAT return.
Those taxpayers who are required to submit advance VAT returns must nevertheless submit an annual VAT return.
Even small business owners who are not required to pay VAT must submit an annual VAT return.
The taxpayers are generally obligated to submit an advance sales tax return by the 10th day after expiry of the calendar quarter in which the value added tax arises (§ 18 (2) UStG).
In the previous year, however, if the VAT liability amounted to more than € 6,136 or if it is a newly founded company, the entrepreneur is obliged to submit monthly advance VAT returns no later than the 10th day after the end of the respective month.
The taxpayer may also decide to submit monthly advance VAT returns if he has been reimbursed in the previous year for an amount of € 6,136 (§ 18 (2a) UStG).
If the annual sales tax does not exceed 512 €, neither VAT returns nor VAT returns are required.
A resulting VAT liability is payable 10 days after the end of the taxable period.
A refund can lead to a more thorough audit by the tax authorities.
(Legal) deadlines for the processing of VAT returns and for the refund of VAT overpayments do not exist.
In order to receive a timely refund, a security can be offered for the refund amount.
In principle, VAT returns, including reimbursement cases, must be processed quickly.
The German sales tax law allows for an extension of these (submission or payment) periods (§ 18 (6) UStG).
The extension must be requested separately.
