For this, risky intra-Community transactions carried out by taxpayers within the EU and recorded in EUROCANET were selected (see section 4.3).
The purpose of the EUROFISC network is to optimize mutual assistance in tax matters and combat VAT fraud more effectively. Cooperation between competent authorities should be improved in order to detect fraud as early as possible.
Later, EUROFISC could be used as a tool to estimate the risk potential of intra-community transactions.
The ECOFIN Council6 approved EUROFISC on 7 October 2008, and at the same time adopted the principles for the operation of the system.
The model for EUROFISC is provided by EUROCANET, developed by the Belgian tax authorities in cooperation with the other Member States and supported by the European Commission and OLAF7.
The purpose of the system is to detect risky revenues and to identify entrepreneurs involved in organized VAT scams.
4.1.2 Implementation of the recommendations in Germany
The evaluation of the recommendations from the first report led to the following findings:
Recommendation 1
Harmonization of conditions for the registration of taxpayers within the EU
The German tax authorities have developed a well-functioning system for the registration of taxpayers on the basis of a detailed questionnaire.
The Federal Ministry of Finance presented this system to the Commission in October 2007.
The system itself is constantly being improved.
The data given in the questionnaire are now electronically recorded and will later be available for further investigation. They are thus part of the risk management at the registration.
The Commission had made a proposal8 to amend Regulation 1798/2003. It provided, inter alia, common standards for the registration and cancellation of taxpayers.
The Member States still needed clarification and clarification.
The Federal Court of Auditors recommended that the Federal Ministry of Finance refrain from going back beyond the already achieved standards.
Recommendation 2
Monthly delivery of the ZM
On April 8, 2010, a law9 on the transposition of EU directives into national law was passed.
It contains, inter alia, provisions on the monthly submission of the CM for intra-Community supplies
and comes into force on 1 July 2010.
Recommendation 3
