In isolated cases, the contract notices published at national level included more information – e.g. concerning performance deadlines – or were published earlier than the notices published in the European Union’s Official Journal.
Ex-ante transparency
The units of one construction administration had commissioned a service company with publishing the national notices.
The latter published the notices on its own procurement platform for the use of which fees are charged.
The construction authorities had however not checked whether this company had complied with the requirement to pass on the notices to the Federal Government’s free internet portal.
Sample audits showed that only one third of the notices had been published on the latter portal.
NKÚ
Contract notice
In case of the construction of a water treatment plant, the contracting authority in its publication of award procedure to suppliers did not indicate the criteria it intended to apply in selecting tenderers.
The contracting authority was not able to prove the way of bid selection.
Reduction of number of bidders was, according to previous legislation, duly in place.
In case of a road circle construction the contracting authority did not specify the figures for evaluation of compliance with qualification criteria and did not indicate the number of bidders to be invited nor in publication of restricted procedure opening neither in the contract award documentation.
The contracting authority evaluated the qualification requirements of all 6 bidders in the restricted procedure as being complied with, but one bidder was excluded because he met the qualification requirements on the last sixth position.
These steps of contracting authority were not transparent, because no information concerning the qualification particulars evaluation and the method of evaluation had ever been published.
Publication of notices
In case of ex-military areas reconstructions, the contracting authority did not publish the written invitation to tender.
Conclusions and recommendations / summarised findings
The two-stage information procedure with prior information and contract notice is an important instrument for implementing the transparency requirement that applies to EU-wide tendering procedures and thus for enhancing competition and preventing corruption.
By extending the obligation to publish prior information to national tendering procedures in the Czech Republic and by applying this obligation in Germany in cases of open and restricted tendering, both countries have implemented EU requirements and thus increased the transparency of national tendering procedures.
