In Germany, contracts below the EU threshold are awarded in accordance with the national procedures (public invitation to tender, restricted invitation to tender, negotiated contract), which, however, are aforementioned procedures. largely identical with the EU-wide contract award.
Public procurement law in Germany is characterised by the principle of preference for the open procedure (where tenders have to be invited EU-wide) and for the public invitation to tender (in case of merely national contract awards).
Under the open procedure and the public invitation to tender, every interested enterprise may submit a bid.
Another essential feature of German procurement law is the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
This is achieved mainly by dividing an overall public works project in trade-specific lots and part lots.
By awarding separate contracts for these lots, as many enterprises as possible, are to be given the chance to compete.
The two aforementioned characteristics of German procurement are time-tested tools for obtaining good value for money.
More than 330,000 construction firms with workforce of 1.9 mil. are registered in Germany.
In the Czech Republic, the EU-wide contract award procedures are also to be applied to public works contracts below the EU threshold.
An exception to this is the simplified procedure below threshold, where the contracting authorities may under certain conditions use considerably less strict procedure.
In agreement with EU law, Czech procurement law includes provisions according to which contracts are to be concluded, if competition is guaranteed and an advantageous price is obtained.
The present Czech legislation enables contracting authorities to choose between open and restricted procedure.
In the Czech Republic, there are about 85,000 registered building companies, out of it 1,900 building contractors with 20 or more workers each.
Aggregate volume of public works contracts awarded by contracting agencies and shares of contract award types in the two countries
In 2011, the total volume of construction works in Germany totalled € 307 billion.
Of these, € 45.5 billion (equivalent to 15 per cent) were accounted for by public contracts which, apart from contracts awarded by the Federal Government, included contracts awarded by the Federal States and municipalities.
The total volume of federal building and road construction projects (without railway construction and hydraulic engineering) amounted to € 8.5 billion.
