- 8525 20 99 Transmission apparatus incorporating reception apparatus: Others,
- 8529 90 40 Parts and components suitable for use solely or primarily with apparatus falling under headings 8525 to 8528
Others: Parts and components of apparatus falling under subheadings 8525 10 50, 8525 20 91, 8525 20 99, 8525 40 11 and 8527 90 92.
SAD items from the Customs Databases of the Czech and Slovak Republics were mutually assigned on the basis of matching contents of different columns of the SAD (e.g. invoiced price, quantity, weight, license plate number of the vehicle carrying the consignment, border crossing date, Customs Tariff heading etc.).
Results of the comparison are presented in the following tables and charts.
The process of matching individual export and import transactions was complicated, inter alia, by the fact that export and import transactions had not been declared by the parties in the same way.
So, for example, a Czech export transaction made use of a single SAD, while the corresponding import transaction on the Slovak side made use of multiple SADs, there were differences in the numbers of items between an export SAD and its matching import SAD etc.
Additional factors affecting the rate of success of the matching or assignment process was the structure of data in the Czech and Slovak Customs Databases, as well as the period of time elapsed between the registration of an export transaction in the Customs Database of one country and the registration of the corresponding import transaction in the Customs Database of the other country.
Results of the comparison were used to select check samples at audited Tax Offices.
Attention was focused on some taxpaying entities that had accomplished export or import transactions between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, which were impossible to identify in both national Customs Databases.
Furthermore, some other taxpaying entities, in respect whereof data on export or import transactions between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic was found in both national Customs Databases, were selected for the purpose of verification of business operations shown in Value-Added Tax Return Forms.
4.3. Pilot Audit at the Stary Hrozenkov - Drietoma Border Checkpoint
The border checkpoint for the pilot audit was selected on the basis of a joint analysis of unassigned SAD items in the Czech and Slovak Customs Databases.
