Both the Czech Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany have transposed the European Union Directives into national law.
Corruption prevention
Significance of corruption prevention
In neither country is there a legal definition of what constitutes corruption.
In general, corruption is understood to mean the misuse of a position of confidence for private advantage.
As a rule, it is implied that such abuse is incited by those who benefit from it.
Corruption may hamper competition and may cause substantial economic damage.
According to estimates, global costs caused by corruption, amount to 5 % of the global economic output.
For the European Union area, these costs are estimated at an amount equivalent of 1 % of the area’s economic output.
If the contracting authority is involved, agreements restricting competition or unfair behaviour may undermine confidence in the integrity and the capability of the public administration to function.
Thus, preventing corruption is an essential task for awarding authorities.
Practices and procedures are to be reviewed to adress areas that are especially vulnerable to corruption so that appropriate anticorruption measures can be taken.
Taking preventive measures and carrying out effective controls may substantially reduce vulnerability of decision-making processes to corruption.
As a rule, the awarding of works contracts is considered to be particularly vulnerable to corruption.
Measures to prevent corruption
In Germany, corruption is prosecuted under penal and employment law, this especially applies to active and passive bribery and to the undue acceptance of benefits and undue granting of benefits.
In order to prevent corruption, the German Federal Government issued a guideline together with recommendations on corruption prevention in the federal administration , according to which, in addition to risk analyses, the following principles shall apply to contract award procedures: precedence of open tendering multiple control principle and transparent decision-making separation of planning, awarding of contracts and accounting precise and full documentation of procurement procedures.
In addition, further provisions having a preventive effect against corruption have become part of procurement law.
In 2011, the federal department responsible introduced an IT-supported system to monitor the awarding of federal road construction contracts.
By means of this system, procurement data, e.g. estimated costs, order total and private independent professionals involved, can be fully recorded and analysed with a view to finding irregularities.
