Basic audit findings
BRH
Documentation
A large number of the tendering procedures audited were not documented completly.
The contract award notices did not include all necessary information about e.g. reasons for product specifications and national regulations.
In the case of one tendering procedure, the contracting authority did not give any reason why it had awarded the contract to a bidder whose tender did not include obligatory proofs.
In a few cases, documentation of the contracting authorities did not include all records required for documenting the tendering procedure.
Publication of contract awards
In the case of some EU-wide tendering procedures, the contracting authorities failed to publish the contract award notices.
In the case of several tendering procedures, the proofs for the publication of contract award notices by the contracting authorities were missing.
Reporting duties
The statistical compilations reviewed included the required minimum information and had been produced and posted on a timely basis.
Ex-post transparency
In most cases, the construction administrations audited published the contract data of the completed tendering procedure.
In the case of one construction administration, however, these data were not published due to a communication error.
It took the construction administration half a year to notice the mistake.
As a result, contract data of the tendering procedures completed during that period were not published.
NKÚ
Documentation
In case of construction work connected with a large sports event considerable shortcomings in documentation in course of procurement procedure were found out, which concerned mainly incorrect data e.g. in evaluation committee records concerning the bid prices.
In adition, some of the minutes about the opening of envelopes were not signed.
Publication of contract awards
In case of repairs and maintenance of road construction projects, announcements of contracts awarded were distributed after the deadline, resp. they were not published.
Summarised findings
The provisions on documentation, reporting and notification implement the EU requirements and are largely identical in both countries.
This generally ensures the transparency of contract-award procedures and award decisions.
The Czech publication requirements are somewhat stricter than their German counterparts.
The examination revealed shortcomings substantially reducing the value of documentation and publication as a means of corruption prevention.
THISsegmentISintentionallyLEFTblank
The construction authorities should further enhance the transparency of their contract award procedures and should fully meet reporting and notification requirements.
