Two concrete bridges were identified on the A 17 and four on the D 8 whose price is markedly higher.
These bridges were identified partly by a method enabling the ascertainment of atypical values in a set of numbers and partly by regressive analysis taking into account the correlation between the bridge price and its size (distance above the regressive curve is a key to identifying atypically expensive bridges).
Information about the atypically high price of the said bridges should, however, be regarded merely as an indicator as to which bridges to focus on.
In order to be able to make a generally applicable conclusion the causes of the high price would have to be analysed in each identified case.
One reason may be inefficient administrative action but it may also have been caused by environmental protection requirements or any other acceptable reasons.
Given that the Czech concrete bridges are on average longer than the German ones (see table below), the proven negative correlation between the bridge price and length might lead one to expect that they would be cheaper.
The hypothesis about the lower cost of Czech concrete bridges is also supported by the lower cost of labour in the construction industry in the Czech Republic than in Germany.
The results of the analysis, however, indicate that the price of concrete bridges on the D 8 is higher than on the A 17.
Two possible reasons for this state of affairs were identified during joint meetings.
1.
In Germany most bridges are procured as independent projects.
That makes it possible for small and medium-sized regional firms to take part in the tender.
In the Czech Republic many bridges are procured as part of a contract for a part of motorway route that is several kilometres long.
Small and medium-sized firms do not take part in this kind of tender, as the job is too big for them.
2.
There is greater variety in bridge structures used in the Czech Republic than in Germany.
In this context the NKÚ found that the type of bridge structure is decided long before it is built.
The decision is made during the time when the RMD submits the zoning decision application.
At this time the RMD selects bridge types from several alternatives, but economy plays only a minor role in decision-making.
