Entities handling monitored mineral oils either in bulk storage or in packaging exceeding 220 litres must be registered with the duty administrator.
For the registration to be issued, the applicant, the governing body, and the responsible representative have to meet the stipulated personal conditions, and these have to be satisfied for the duration of the registration.
THISsegmentISintentionallyLEFTblank
THISsegmentISintentionallyLEFTblank
THISsegmentISintentionallyLEFTblank
As at 30 November 2016, the registry of persons authorised to handle mineral oils contained 54 valid registrations; four registrations were cancelled on the request of the registration holders themselves.
Electronic records have to contain detailed information about income, own consumption, and sale or movement of mineral oils, including document numbers, numbers of the notifications of receipt sent to the excise duty administrator, storage and consumption sites, purpose of consumption, or, in the case of sale, place of delivery (destination) and customer registration number.
The excise duty administrator has to receive notifications of each receipt of special mineral oils 24 to 72 hours prior to the receipt.
The notification must include identification of the business partners, name and nomenclature of each special mineral oil, amount, purpose of consumption or sale/transfer information.
Notification of the expected amount of mineral oil to be purchased, sold or consumed in the respective year must be submitted by the entity at the time of submission of the registration application or by the end of the respective calendar year.
Notifications of the purpose of use and marking, storage, or consumption site, and identification data about the person to whom the special mineral oil is sold or transferred are to be submitted before each change of such information.
Notifications are submitted electronically using intelligent forms or via data box in PDF format.
A total of 630 notifications were submitted by persons handling special mineral oils during the audited period.
An excise duty administrator has to confiscate and forfeit special mineral oils or the transport vehicle when he discovers that special mineral oils are being handled without registration or if the registered person is not fulfilling his notification obligations.
Just like the case of failure to fulfil obligations connected to the transport/movement of excisable goods, these shortcomings cannot be remedied after the fact.
Fuel distributor registration is mandatory for persons who sell or are authorised to sell fuel.
