Restrictions on package volume, material of consumer packaged goods, and on the number of packages with a damaged excise stamp at the point of final sale or dispatch to consumers.
Consumer packaging means a container or other package holding a maximum of one litre or, if a container is made of glass, three litres.
Ethyl alcohol in bigger packaging is considered as being unmarked and may not be handled.
At the point of final sale to individuals for consumption, there can only be one consumer packaged item with a damaged excise stamp or, if the packaging is equipped with a one-way valve, three consumer packaged items with a damaged excise stamp.
Mandatory registration of persons who place consumer packaged alcohol with at least 15% ethyl alcohol per volume into free circulation and who are ethyl alcohol importers or producers in the Czech Republic or operators of warehouses under duty suspension, provided personal and technical conditions are met.
The personal conditions of credibility, integrity, and no record of being banned from doing business have to be met by the applicant and the person acting in the capacity of the statutory body or a responsible person.
Depending on the number of alcohol excise stamps ordered, the applicant has to pay a guarantee of CZK 100,000-5,000,000 (i.e., approx. EUR 3,700-185,000).
The technical conditions for registration include suitability of the alcohol labelling site and a camera security system that is located in the labelling facilities or warehouse, operates continuously and allows remote access to the duty administrator.
Registration markings of the excise stamp are used for labelling alcohol with a volume greater than 0.06 litres.
During movement of the alcohol excise stamps, the registration markings of the alcohol excise stamps must be indicated in the transport documents or, in the case of export, in the customs declaration.
Until 30 November 2013, alcohol excise stamps contained a 10-digit registration code that included a 4-digit offtake registration number, excise stamp application code, and ethanol concentration level classification code.
Effective of 1 December 2013, excise stamps contain two types of identifiers and the amount of ethyl alcohol in the consumer packaged alcohol expressed in millilitres of ethanol at 20°C, rounded down to whole millilitres.
