At the end of 2014, national legislation introduced a new excise stamp information system.
The objective of this new system was to facilitate and computerise the system for ordering, assessing, printing, distributing, and using excise stamps intended for labelling consumer packaged tobacco, cigars, cigarillos, and cigarettes.
Excise stamp users who wish to take off excise stamps according to the “new system” have to file a request with the customs office to have excise stamps issued electronically.
Excise stamp users have to use the electronic excise stamp system not only to request that excise stamps be issued electronically, but also to report data required under Slovak national legislation and to keep a record of excise stamps.
Excise stamps may only be printed by the state enterprise Mincovňa Kremnica, štátny podnik (the Kremnica Mint).
The FD SR performs fiscal supervision over the handing of excise stamps and their destruction at the printing house.
The FD SR is obliged to arrange for the presence of one of its employee at the printing house during handling of the excise stamps.
The FD SR arranges the sale of excise stamps to excise stamp users at the printing house.
It is possible to take off excise stamps only from the Financial Directorate employee at the printing house.
Tax warehouse keepers or tobacco product importers can affix excise stamps to consumer packaged tobacco.
Tax warehouse keepers, tobacco product importers, or authorised consignees can affix excise stamps to consumer packaged cigars or cigarillos.
Only an excise stamp with the symbol indicating the valid excise duty rate can be used to label consumer packaged tobacco, cigars, and cigarillos.
Labelling of consumer packaged cigarettes with excise stamps may only be carried out by the company that manufactured the cigarettes.
No fewer than 500 excise stamps, or a multiple thereof, may be ordered.
The customs office will notify the excise stamp user electronically about the number of excise stamps that he may collect, the price of the excise stamps, and the bank account number of the FD SR no later than within three working days.
The customs office may reduce the number of ordered excise stamps if circumstances arise based on which it can be reasonable assumed that a breach of legal regulations might occur.
